In this and the next few videos, I want
to start to talk about classification
problems, where the variable y that
you want to predict is valued.
We'll develop an algorithm
called logistic regression,
which is one of the most popular and most
widely used learning algorithms today.
Here are some examples of
classification problems.
Earlier we talked about
email spam classification
as an example of a classification problem.
Another example would be
classifying online transactions.
So if you have a website
that sells stuff and
if you want to know if a particular
transaction is fraudulent or not,
whether someone is using a stolen credit
card or has stolen the user's password.
There's another classification problem.
And earlier we also talked about
the example of classifying
tumors as cancerous,
malignant or as benign tumors.
In all of these problems the variable that
we're trying to predict is a variable
y that we can think of as taking
on two values either zero or one,
either spam or not spam, fraudulent or not
fraudulent, related malignant or benign.
Another name for the class that we denote
with zero is the negative class, and
another name for the class that we
denote with one is the positive class.
So zero we denote as the benign tumor,
and one,
positive class we denote
a malignant tumor.
The assignment of the two classes,
spam not spam and so on.
The assignment of the two classes to
positive and negative to zero and
one is somewhat arbitrary and
it doesn't really matter but often there
is this intuition that a negative class
is conveying the absence of something
like the absence of a malignant tumor.
Whereas one the positive class is
conveying the presence of something that
we may be looking for, but
the definition of which is negative and
which is positive is somewhat arbitrary
and it doesn't matter that much.
For now we're going to start with
classification problems with
just two classes zero and one.
Later one we'll talk about multi
class problems as well where
therefore y may take on four values zero,
one, two, and three.
This is called a multiclass
classification problem.
But for the next few videos, let's
start with the two class or the binary
classification problem and we'll worry
about the multiclass setting later.
So how do we develop
a classification algorithm?
Here's an example of a training set for
a classification task for
classifying a tumor as malignant or
benign.
And notice that malignancy takes on
only two values, zero or no, one or yes.
So one thing we could do
given this training set
is to apply the algorithm
that we already know.
Linear regression to this data set and
just try to fit the straight
line to the data.
So if you take this training set and
fill a straight line to it,
maybe you get a hypothesis
that looks like that, right.
So that's my hypothesis.
H(x) equals theta transpose x.
If you want to make predictions one thing
you could try doing is then threshold
the classifier outputs at
0.5 that is at a vertical
axis value 0.5 and if the hypothesis
outputs a value that is greater than
equal to 0.5 you can take y = 1.
If it's less than 0.5 you can take y=0.
Let's see what happens if we do that.
So 0.5 and so
that's where the threshold is and
that's using linear regression this way.
Everything to the right of this
point we will end up predicting
as the positive cross.
Because the output values is greater than
0.5 on the vertical axis and everything
to the left of that point we will end
up predicting as a negative value.
In this particular example,
it looks like linear regression is
actually doing something reasonable.
Even though this is a classification
toss we're interested in.
But now let's try changing
the problem a bit.
Let me extend out the horizontal
access a little bit and
let's say we got one more training
example way out there on the right.
Notice that that additional
training example,
this one out here, it doesn't
actually change anything, right.
Looking at the training set it's pretty
clear what a good hypothesis is.
Is that well everything to
the right of somewhere around here,
to the right of this we
should predict this positive.
Everything to the left we should probably
predict as negative because from this
training set, it looks like all the tumors
larger than a certain value around here
are malignant, and all the tumors smaller
than that are not malignant, at least for
this training set.
But once we've added that extra example
over here, if you now run linear
regression, you instead get
a straight line fit to the data.
That might maybe look like this.
And if you know threshold
hypothesis at 0.5,
you end up with a threshold
that's around here, so
that everything to the right of this
point you predict as positive and
everything to the left of that
point you predict as negative.
And this seems a pretty bad thing for
linear regression to have done, right,
because you know these are our positive
examples, these are our negative examples.
It's pretty clear we really should be
separating the two somewhere around there,
but somehow by adding one example
way out here to the right,
this example really isn't
giving us any new information.
I mean, there should be no surprise
to the learning algorithm.
That the example way out here
turns out to be malignant.
But somehow having that example out
there caused linear regression to change
its straight-line fit to the data
from this magenta line out here
to this blue line over here, and
caused it to give us a worse hypothesis.
So, applying linear regression
to a classification problem
often isn't a great idea.
In the first example, before I
added this extra training example,
previously linear regression was just
getting lucky and it got us a hypothesis
that worked well for that particular
example, but usually applying
linear regression to a data set, you might
get lucky but often it isn't a good idea.
So I wouldn't use linear regression for
classification problems.
Here's one other funny thing about
what would happen if we were to use
linear regression for
a classification problem.
For classification we know
that y is either zero or one.
But if you are using linear
regression where the hypothesis
can output values that are much
larger than one or less than zero,
even if all of your training examples
have labels y equals zero or one.
And it seems kind of
strange that even though we
know that the labels should be zero,
one it seems kind of strange if
the algorithm can output values much
larger than one or much smaller than zero.
So what we'll do in the next few videos
is develop an algorithm called logistic
regression, which has
the property that the output,
the predictions of logistic regression
are always between zero and one, and
doesn't become bigger than one or
become less than zero.
And by the way,
logistic regression is, and
we will use it as a classification
algorithm, is some,
maybe sometimes confusing that the term
regression appears in this name
even though logistic regression is
actually a classification algorithm.
But that's just a name it was given for
historical reasons.
So don't be confused by that logistic
regression is actually a classification
algorithm that we apply to settings
where the label y is discrete value,
when it's either zero or one.
So hopefully you now know why,
if you have a classification problem,
using linear regression isn't a good idea.
In the next video,
we'll start working out the details
of the logistic regression algorithm.